Hey, guys, what's up?
This is so hot, and I welcome you to another tutorial on this course on Ruby.
And in this drill we will be continuing with the operator journey and we will be covering, again,
the two kind of operators we have in Ruby.
And we will start on with the logical operators in Ruby.
So some of the logical operators are listed right on your screen and each operator is equal to some
other kind.
So starting on with the first one, this and this is basically equal to this.
And as you can see, that is called the logical end operator and it is also called the logical end operator.
So you can use it by either specifying this Endi or you can just use these two airlines over here.
And what they do is that both the options are true.
Then the conditions become true and it is the same for that of both operators are non-zero.
Then the condition becomes true.
So then we have this operator that is called the logical or operator and it is equal to that.
So here that is also called the logical operator.
If any of the two options are non-zero, then the condition becomes true and it also stays the same
that have to operate the non-zero.
The condition becomes true.
Then we have this negation which is equal to this Nodaway here is called the logical not operator,
and it is used to reverse the logic instead of its upper end.
If a condition is true, then the logical not operator will return false on your atama under.
So moving on to the next operator we are going to cover in this tutorial is the ternary operator.
Now, ternary operator is a very interesting kind of operator, and it can be used in basically two
ways.
One is to use an if condition that is going to be a multiline statement in which we will specify if
then we will specify the condition up to that.
That condition is true.
What it will do is will be specified in the block of if then it will specify and else keyword that will
do whatever will be done if the condition we have specified after the if statement is not true.
Now, if as is going to be a part of the future tutorial now this is the second representation that
is the ternary operator that is used to represent the if else condition.
Now, how this is going to be used, let's just cover some quick examples.
So we will start on what the logical operators will help.
So we will use all the six of them, but we will use either of these conditional.
I'll show you that how this and this is equal and how this and this is going to be equal and how the
last two of them are going to be equal.
So let's go on to item and let's say we have four values equal to five, then we have B equal to six.
Then let's say we have C, equal to five again, and then we have the equal to six again.
So here E and C have the same value and B and we have the same value.
Now what we will do is that we will specify thoughts and we will write a equal equal to C.
And.
The equal equal to the now, as you can see, that we have a specified condition, equal, equal to
see and equal equal to D and now for the and condition, the description is that if both conditions
on the sites of the and operator are true, then it is going to return true.
Else it is going to return false.
Now, is it conceivable that this condition is true because equal to five, equal to five.
And then the second condition is also true because B equal to six and equal to six.
Just run this court and you can see that true is generated on your atem her.
So if you change any of this, for example, if I just type in AOL now, as you can see that V is not
equal to a run, this underscored and it is going to generate false for you because as I told you that
for the ad condition to return.
True, it is must that the conditions on both sides of the end operators must be true.
Now, as I told you, that this is basically very equal to this because both have the same effect.
Just specify D here, run this go through is going to be generated, specify AOL run undisclosed and
false is going to be generated.
That's why this operator and using and or here is going to have the same effect.
Now let's talk about the second one that is are so we use Auroville.
So the statement or the description for RSA is that if any of these two conditions are true, then it
is going to return.
True.
So in this case, both the conditions are true or underscore it is going to generate true.
If one of the condition is false, that is B equal to, let's say, eight, which is not true now or
undisclosed.
And it's still going to return.
True, because one of the conditions that is equal, equal to see is true.
Not both the conditions of false, let's say equal equal to D run the score.
And now it is going to generate false because none of the conditions is true for R to generate a true
it is must that one of the condition is true.
You can specify three conditions you can just specify are here again.
You can specify or again you can specify or again you can check hundreds of conditions.
For example, you want to calculate the, let's say, GPA of a student.
So you will specify that it has marks are from, let's say, 90 to 100, give him out.
Plus, if its marks are between 80 to 90, give him Alpha.
Then if his marks are between 70 to 80, give him a B plus.
Then from 60 to 70, give him a B minus and so on.
You can specify one hundreds and thousands of conditions using and you can check all of them using the
R condition or you can check them using the N condition.
So you can also specify the Sohel and or the R and this very statement of is going to have the same
effect, run the score and falsies again generated, make one equal or underscored and true is going
to be generated.
Now, is it told you that the last condition of a hill that is basically the negation operator and as
I told you, that it is called the logical nod and it is used to reverse the logical state of its opera.
And so what does that mean?
Just remove this from here?
And now, as you can see that we have specified equal, equal to D and we know that it is false.
Run this and you can see that false is generated.
But if you specify a negation of a hill around this score and as you can see that the.
Answer for this, which was true, sorry, which was false, has now been reversed and it is not true,
you can just specify not here as well or underscore and it is again, equally true.
Remove this from here.
Run this and it is going to generate false, so that's how you can use the logical operators and early.
So moving on to the ternary operator, and as I told you, it is the very same as it was condition,
let me give you a quick format of how, if conditions work, you have to specify if then in here you
have to write in the condition.
And whatever you want to do, if this condition is true, is going to be a part of some statements over
here.
Then after those line of statement, you can specify multiple statements made by any number of lines.
But you have to do is that just move out of this block right in else.
And then again, you have to write in a set of statements.
So that is what is the format of and if Al's condition, but that will be discussed in very detail in
the future editorial when we will be discussing the control floor.
So for now, let's just leave it.
What I want to show you is that this Apelles condition that was written, multiple lines can be written
in a single line as well, that is using the ternary operator.
So how this is done is that first you have to specify the condition.
So let's say I want to check in the condition that let's say I want to check if, let's say 20 is greater
than 10 or not.
Now, apparently, I simply know that it is.
But what I want to say is that I want to print.
Yes, if this condition is true and I want to print a know if this condition is false.
So what I will do is that I will put a question mark.
And since I've put a question mark, which means that I want to ask a question, that if 20 is greater
than 10 or not, as you have already covered the predicate methods and you know what?
Why this question mark is used.
So I want to specify.
Yes.
So if this condition is true, it is going to print whatever I have written right away and then I will
specify a colon.
And after this call and whatever I specify is going to be printed if this condition over here is false.
Now, what are you going to do simply is that you can just assign it to a variable, let's say a.
And just right in both, say, around the school, and as you can see on the output, Altamirano, that
you have this.
Yes, sprinted right ahead now is very simple since 20 is greater than 10.
So whatever we have written over here is going to be printed since we have.
Yes.
So that's why.
Was printed about him.
Now, they told you that if this condition is false, then this condition, this statement over here
is going to run.
So let me just specify let's say 30 were held so you can simply see that this condition is now not true.
So if you just run the school, you can see that no is printed right over here.
So that's how you can use a ternary operator, and if you have single conditions, you want to check
and you want to check them in a single line and you want only a single instruction to be printed when
a certain condition is true, then what you can do is that you can use the ternary operator instead
of the condition.
But you if you have to use and if you want to do, let's say, a hundred of lines of codes after a certain
condition, for example, if this 20 is greater than 30, then what you want to do is that if this condition
is true, let's say it is, then now this condition is true.
After this condition is true, what do you want to do is that you want to assign a value to something.
You want to print that while you understand it, what Arabize you want to do hundreds of things.
Then what you can do is that you can not use the ternary operator then.
Then you have to use the if else condition because you need a block to write all that go to hell.
But in this case, it was quite simple.
We want only a single statement to be printed if this condition was true and only a single statement
to be printed if this condition was not true.
So that's why we have used ternary operator right over here.
So I guess we are done with both the operators.
We have covered the examples of both of them as well.
So I guess that's what the strategy as well.
Thank you so much, guys, for watching.
And I'll see you guys in the next tutorial.